Issue 48: Acknowledge security consideration of having task Author (#66)
wangshan/draft-wang-ppm-dap-taskprov: draft-wang-ppm-dap-taskprov.md

for configuring Clients prior to task execution. For privacy we consider the
Author to be under control of the adversary. It is therefore incumbent on

> protocol participants to verify the privacy parameters of a task before opting

Reviewer: Let's make this a new paragraph.

in. One risk introduced by the addition of the Author is the Author can
configure tasks uniquely for a Client. If the Author colludes with the Leader,
it can track the uploading activities of that Client, which leaks information

> about that Client, e.g., location.

Author: We can point to some mitigation, e.g., OHTTP, not sure if it's worth mentioning here.

Reviewer: How does OHTTP mitigate this risk?

Author: Actually, by checking the task parameters, it will be mitigated slightly, e.g., by making sure min batch size is not too small, but the Author can still target the same group of clients for this attack.

Reviewer: (moved to another thread)

protocol participants to verify the privacy parameters of a task before opting
in.

> 

Reviewer: It's not clear to me why tracking a client across uploads leaks the client's location. Do you have an idea in mind? 

I realize this is mentioned in #48, but now I'm not sure it's the best example. Stepping back, what does an attacker that controls the Author (and possible the Collector and an Aggregator) by learn by fingerprinting a Client's upload task? Perhaps this would violate other properties adjcent to DAP, like anonymity or differential privacy?

Author: I think if a client sends report to leader directly, then the upload will contain things like IP, or user agent, etc. That can leak the client location, device. And by not checking task parameters carefully, as a task author, I can set min_batch_size to be 1, and see the client measurement directly, along with user agent and IP.

Reviewer: > I think if a client sends report to leader directly, then the upload will contain things like IP, or user agent, etc.

Right: DAP on its own doesn't provide for anonymity. Suppose though you rand DAP on top of OHTTP.

> That can leak the client location, device. And by not checking task parameters carefully, as a task author, I can set min_batch_size to be 1, and see the client measurement directly, along with user agent and IP.

This is supposed to be prevented by the "opt-in" procedure.

Author: I guess maybe looking at this issue again, do we just care about the capability of author colluding with leader, where author is not a collector? So it cannot see the measurement in the clear. So you can only get the metadata information of a particular client, e.g. IP and user agent. Is that the only security risk we care about then?

Reviewer: Yeah I think that's a good example of the kind of risk we're thinking of. More to the point: The metadata may convey to the Leader who the client is; and if you're expecting that to be impossible, say because you use OHTTP, then you have to be very careful about how taskprov is deployed.

Reviewer: But I think we could also make the point that, even if the attacker can deanonymize a client, it's hard for it do learn anything more than the client uploaded a report. If the task is unique to that client, and the batch size is larger than 1, then it's really not going to get any more information.

> One risk introduced by the addition of the Author is the Author can configure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another risk introduced by the addition of the Author is the Author could configure
```

tasks uniquely for a Client. If the Author colludes with the Leader, it can

> track the uploading activities of that Client, which leaks information about
> that Client, e.g., location.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
track the uploading activities of that Client, which could leak information about
that Client, e.g., location.
```

> track the uploading activities of that Client, which leaks information about
> that Client, e.g., location.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
track the uploading activities of that Client, which leaks information about
that Client, e.g., its location.
```

protocol participants to verify the privacy parameters of a task before opting
in.

Another risk introduced by the addition of the Author is the Author could
configure tasks uniquely for a Client to fingerprint the Client. If the Author
colludes with the Leader, it can learn some metadata information about the
Client, e.g., the Client IP and user agent string. This can be mitigated by
anonymizing the Client, such as by using Oblivious HTTP

> {{!I-D.draft-ietf-ohai-ohttp-08}} in the DAP upload route. We also note that,

Reviewer: It's not clear to me that OHTTP mitigates this issue. In fact, I think the converse is true: fingerprinting the client effectively removes any protection that the client gets from OHTTP. Concretely, the Author configures the client with `TaskConfig<task_info = "this client has IP address 192.168.0.1">`; when the Leader gets the Client's report (via the OHTTP proxy), the Leader immediately knows the IP address of the client that produced the report.

Author: You mean only targeting that client in a particular IP address. Let's avoid talking about OHTTP mitigation in this scenario then. Instead we will just say, if the author can deanonymize the client, the author can learn the metadata information at best, if the client carefully checks for privacy parameter.

protocol participants to verify the privacy parameters of a task before opting
in.

Another risk is that the Author could configure a unique task to fingerprint a

> Client. If the Author colludes with the Leader, it can learn some metadata
> information about the Client, e.g., the Client IP, user agent string, or the

Reviewer: Is this what you mean?
```suggestion
Client. If the Author colludes with the Leader, the Leader can learn some metadata
information about the Client, e.g., the Client IP, user agent string, or the
```

Author: You mean "the Author"?

Reviewer: Actually I meant the Leader, but Author makes sense too I suppose. Perhaps we should just say "attacker" here.

> upload timestamp. However, even though the Author is able to deanonymize the

Reviewer: The leader already learns the upload timestamp. (It's in the report metadata.)

Also, let's be more precise about how it learns things it's not supposed to.

protocol participants to verify the privacy parameters of a task before opting
in.

Another risk is that the Author could configure a unique task to fingerprint a
Client. Although Client anonymization is not guaranteed by DAP, some systems
built on top of DAP may hope to achieve this property by using a proxy server

> with Oblivious HTTP {{!I-D.draft-ietf-ohai-ohttp-08}} to forward Client reports

Reviewer: :)

```suggestion
with Oblivious HTTP {{!RFC9458}} to forward Client reports
```

Author: I copied it from DAP draft, perhaps this needs to be updated in DAP as well.

> to the Leader. If the Author colludes with the Leader, the Author can learn some

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to the Leader. If the Author colludes with the Leader, the attacker can learn some
```
